Privacy Policy
Last Updated October 10, 2016

We are strongly committed to letting you know how we will collect and use your personal information.  The policies below are applicable to nionbeauty.com (including any versions optimized for viewing on a wireless or tablet device); all email newsletters published or distributed by us; and all other interactive features, services, and communications provided by us (collectively referred to as the “Sites”), however accessed and/or used, that are operated by us, made available by us, or produced and maintained by Nion Beauty USA, Inc. (collectively “Nion Beauty,” “Company,”  “we”, “us”, or “our”).  We have established this Privacy Policy to let you know the kinds of personal information we may gather during your visit to the Sites, why we gather your information, what we use your personal information for, when we might disclose your personal information, and how you can manage your personal information. By visiting our Sites, you are accepting the practices described in this Privacy Policy.  If you do not agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy, do not use the Sites.

Collection of Information

Personal Information Generally

Personal information is any information that can individually identify you and includes, among other things, your name, e-mail address, telephone number, postal address, credit card, billing and contact information.  You can visit and browse the Sites without revealing personally identifiable information about yourself. We only collect personal information from you when you submit it to us, such as when:

You create an account on the Sites;
You place an order;
You sign up for newsletters or other email notifications;
You contact us; or
You participate in a Site promotion or survey.
Additionally, we may also allow you to provide us with your friend’s email addresses through the Sites’ refer-a-friend feature, so that we can send them information about our products and promotions.  It is your sole responsibility to only share with us those email addresses which you have permission to share.

Personal Information and Social Media

When you interact with the Sites on a social media platform, we may collect the personal information that you make available to us on that page or account including your account ID or “handle.” However, we will comply with the privacy policies of the corresponding social media platform and we will only collect and store such personal information that we are permitted to collect by these social media platforms.  If you choose to link or login to your Nion Beauty account with or through a social networking service, you acknowledge that Company and that service may share certain information about you and your activities. With your consent, we also may share information about your activities, including what you view on the Sites, with that social network’s users.

Non-Personal Information

When you visit the Sites, we may collect certain non-personal information from you, including your Internet Protocol (IP) address, browser type, operating system, the specific web pages visited during your connection, and the domain name from which you accessed the Sites. In addition, we may collect information about your browsing behavior, such as the date and time you visit the Sites, the areas or pages of the Sites that you visit, the amount of time you spend viewing the Sites, the number of times you return to the Sites and other clickstream data. We may also use non-personal information for statistical analysis, research, and other purposes.

Like many commercial websites, we analyze how visitors use our Sites through what is known as "cookie" technology. A cookie is a small text file that is placed on your computer when you access the Sites and allows us to recognize you each time you visit the Sites. We may use cookies to: (1) allow you to use the Sites without having to re-enter your user name and password; (2) enhance or personalize your Sites usage and shopping experience; (3) monitor usage of the Sites; (4) manage the Sites; and (5) improve the Sites and our products and services. If you choose, you can set your browser to reject cookies or you can manually delete individual or all of the cookies on your computer by following your browser’s help file directions. However, if your browser is set to reject cookies or you manually delete cookies, you may have some trouble accessing and using some of the pages and features that are currently on our Sites, or that we may put on our Sites in the future.

We may also use web beacons on the Sites. Web beacons are tiny graphic images that are used to collect information about your visit to the Sites, such as the pages you view and the features you use, as well as information about whether you open and/or act upon one of our emails or advertisements. We may also collect the URL of the website you visited immediately before coming to the Sites. Web beacons help us analyze our Sites visitors' behavior and measure the effectiveness of the Sites and our advertising. We may work with service providers that help us track, collect and analyze this information.

We use Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc., on our Websites. Google Analytics uses cookies or other tracking technologies to help us analyze how users interact with and use the Websites, compile reports on the Websites’ activity, and provide other services related to Websites activity and usage.  The technologies used by Google may collect information such as your IP address, time of visit, whether you are a return visitor, and any referring website.  The Websites do not use Google Analytics to gather information that personally identifies you.  The information generated by Google Analytics will be transmitted to and stored by Google and will be subject to Google’s privacy policies.

We may combine the non-personal information we collect through cookies and web beacons with other information we have collected from you.

Your browser or device may include “Do Not Track” functionality.  Our information collection and disclosure practices, and the choices that we provide to visitors, will continue to operate as described in this Privacy Policy, whether or not a Do Not Track signal is received.

Our Use of Collected Information

We may use the information we collect from and about you for any of the following purposes: We may use the information we collect from and about you for any of the following purposes: (1) to open, maintain, administer or service your Nion Beauty account; (2) to fulfill your requests for products or services; (3) to respond to your inquiries; (4) to review the Sites usage and operations; (5) to address problems with the Sites, our business or our services; (6) to improve the Sites; (7) to protect the security or integrity of the Sites and our business; (8) to monitor the Sites for compliance with our Terms of Use and the law; and (9) to contact you with updates regarding the Sites, newsletters and other informational and promotional materials from us and third party marketing offers from our trusted partners, as well as from other companies.

If you do not wish to receive communications from us about special offers and promotions, please see the section below regarding “opt out.”

Sharing and/or Disclosing Collected Information

Except as disclosed in this Privacy Policy, we do not disclose your Personal Information collected online to any companies not part of Nion Beauty USA, Inc. or its subsidiaries or related entities.  Although, as disclosed below, we may provide your information to our partners, in no event will we sell or rent your personal information as part of a customer list or similar transaction.

Third-Party Agents               

We have third-party agents, subsidiaries, affiliates and partners that perform functions on our behalf, such as hosting, billing, content syndication, content management tools, social media integration, marketing, analytics, customer service, fraud protection, etc.  These entities have access to personal information needed to perform their functions and are contractually obligated to maintain the confidentiality and security of such personal information.  They are restricted from using, selling, distributing or altering this data in any way other than to provide the requested services to the Sites.

Business Partners and Third Parties

We may share personal information we collect through the Sites with our business partners or co-marketers from time to time.  We may also share such personal information with third parties that provide products and services that we think you may be interested in.  Although our treatment of such personal information is governed by this Privacy Policy, such business partner or third party’s treatment of such personal information will be governed by the business partner or third party’s privacy policy.  You may withdraw your consent to our sharing of your personal information with business partners and third parties at any time by following the opt-out process described below.

Emergency Situations

We may also use or disclose personal information collected through the Sites if required to do so by law or in the good-faith belief that such action is necessary to:  (1) conform to applicable law or comply with legal process served on us or the Sites; (2) protect and defend our rights or property, the Sites or our users; and (3) act under emergency circumstances to protect the personal safety of us, our affiliates, agents, or the users of the Sites or the public.

Non-Personal Information

We may disclose or share non-personal information we collect through the Sites in any manner and for any reason that we deem appropriate or necessary.

Children's Privacy

If you are under thirteen years of age, you may browse our site. However, you may not provide personal information to us. This site is not directed to children under the age of thirteen and we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of thirteen on the site. If we become aware that we have inadvertently received personal information from a visitor under the age of thirteen on the site, we will delete the information from our records.

External Links

Our website may provide links to other websites for your convenience and information. These websites may operate independently from us. Linked sites may have their own privacy notices or policies, which we strongly suggest you review if you visit any linked websites. To the extent any linked websites you visit are not owned or controlled by us, we are not responsible for the sites’ content, any use of the sites, or the privacy practices of the sites. 

Special Promotions

We may from time to time, run a special promotion, contest, sweepstakes or similar relating to the Sites (any such a “Special Promotion”).  In the event additional rules apply, such rules will accompany such Special Promotion.  The rules for each Special Promotion will specify how the information gathered from you for entry will be used and disclosed if it is different than as described in this Privacy Policy. 

Security

We maintain physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards to help guard personal information. If transactions are offered on the Sites, transaction information is transmitted in encrypted form using industry-standard Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connections to help protect such information from interception. We restrict authorized access to your personal information to those persons who have a legitimate purpose to know that information to provide products or services to you and those persons you have authorized to have access to such information. Please understand, however, that while we try our best to safeguard your personal information once we receive it, no transmission of data over the Internet or any other public network can be guaranteed to be 100% secure.

Opt Out

If you do not wish to receive communications from us about special offers and promotions, you can opt-out of receiving these communications by following the instructions contained in the messages you receive. Even if you opt-out of receiving these messages, we reserve the right to send you certain communications relating to the services we provide, and we may send you service announcements and administrative messages. We do not offer you the opportunity to opt-out of receiving those communications.

California Privacy Rights

California law permits our customers who are California residents to request certain information about our disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes during the preceding calendar year. This request is free and may be made once a year. To make such a request, please write to us at webmaster@nionbeauty.com.

Notice to Non-US Users

If you are located outside the United States of America, you should be aware that your personally identifiable information will be transferred to the United States of America, the laws of which may be deemed by the your country to have inadequate data protection. If you are located in a country outside the United States of America and voluntarily submit personal information to us, you thereby consent to the general use of such information as provided in this privacy policy and to the transfer of that information to, and/or storage of that information in, the United States of America.

Changes to Terms

We reserve the right to modify or amend the terms of our Privacy Policy from time to time without notice. Your continued use of our Sites following the posting of changes to these terms will mean you accept those changes.  If we intend to apply the modifications or amendments to this Privacy Policy retroactively or to personal information already in our possession, we will provide you with notice of the modifications or amendments.
